When Rohan woke up, he began to
playing with Jimmy, his dog.
There’s something you should do first!
said his big sister, Riya.
BRUSH YOUR TEETH!
I don’t want to brush my teeth!
Jimmy doesn’t brush his teeth!
Animals take care of their
teeth too, but in other ways!
We must brush our teeth
to keep germs away!
Germs?
Germs are very tiny creatures
that you cannot see.
If you don’t brush properly, they
stay in your mouth and hurt you!
Ouch!
YES! That’s why we must
take good care of our teeth
by brushing twice a day
- morning and night!
But brushing is no fun!
I’ll tell you a secret, Rohan!
Rohan smiled.
Mummy called out,
It’s breakfast time!
There’s something we should do first!
said Riya.
WASH OUR HANDS!
But Jimmy never
washes his hands!
Riya laughed, He doesn’t use his
hands or paws to eat like we do!
We must wash our hands with
soap to get rid of germs.
Are germs on our hands too?
Germs are EVERYWHERE!
Aaaah-chhhooo! Riya covered her mouth
with her hands as she sneezed.
Don't do that! My teacher says that we should
sneeze into our sleeve, not our hands! said Rohan.
Why?
Because when we sneeze into our
hands, germs stick to them.
we spread germs and
make others sick!
Here comes Germy! Riya shouted, chasing
Rohan and waving her dirty hands.
EEEEEEEK!
Later Riya showed Rohan the
proper way to wash hands.
Wet your hands and
turn off the tap.
Then rub in some soap on the palms, the
back of the hands and between the fingers.
Scrub hands for twenty seconds!
Now, it’s time to
rinse off and dry!
But that’s a long time! Remember
my secret? Rohan smiled.
When they came back home after
playing, Riya nudged Rohan,
There’s something
we should do first!
Mummy teased, Play some more?
TAKE A BATH!
Mummy, don’t you know that
germs are everywhere?
We can’t see them, but they
stick to our skin and clothes!
That’s why we must bathe every
day… …to get rid of them!
Start by getting yourself
wet, said Mummy.
Then apply soap all over!
Riya and Rohan giggled as Mummy’s
ticklish fingers soaped them up.
Then it’s time to rinse off!
And dry with a clean towel!
SUPERCLEAN!
It’s Jimmy’s turn next!
Do you want to listen to a story?
asked Papa.
There’s something we should do first!
reminded Riya. Tidy UP!
Rohan yawned. Do we have to?
Remember you couldn’t find
your ball the other day?
Putting things away in the proper place
makes it easy to find them later!
And keeps our house neat!
You both are so smart! said
Papa proudly. Bedtime!
Papa! There’s something we should do first!
said Riya, pulling Rohan along.
Make the germs disappear with
our magic secret! Rohan nodded.
A few minutes later, Mummy and
Papa heard a familiar tune.
So that’s your secret! said Papa.
Humming a song to make brushing fun!
And while washing our hands too!
That’s a great idea! said Mummy.
Rohan and Riya enjoy taking
care of themselves. Do you?
They make up a game with the
germs and guess who wins?
Germs say, yucky, mucky and dirty is FUN!
I say, I brush and wash
and I know I have won!
Germs say, never bathe,
it’s a waste of time!
I say, smelling nice
with soap is so fine.
Naughty germ says don’t
pick up your things,
The house looks better that way.
I say, I tidy up because
I like my things
That is a good way
to end my day!
I feel better in every way
I FEEL BETTER IN EVERY WAY!!!!!
Now make up your secret song and hum
it when you have to do boring things!